IAM New Docs (#3201)
hashicorp/boundary: website/content/docs/concepts/iam.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Identity and Access Management (IAM)
description: |-
  Identity and Access Management in Boundary
---

# Identity and Access Management (IAM)
## IAM Components
There are 5 key components to Boundary's identity and access management system: **Scopes**, **Auth Methods**, **Accounts**, **Users**, **Groups**, and **Roles**.

#### Scopes

> [Scopes](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/scopes) can be considered as containers for its own resources and permissions. Each scope also has a permissions boundary that is isolated from other scopes on the same level. There are three types of scopes:

Author: ```suggestion
[Scopes](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/scopes) can be considered as containers for its own resources and permissions. Each scope also has a permissions boundary that is isolated from other scopes on the same level. There are three types of scopes:
```

- **Global** - The highest-level scope of Boundary where administrators configure and manage Boundary for the entire company.
- **Org (Organization)** - Org scopes are contained in the global scope and are typically used to represent business units, organizations, or departments. 
Org scopes can also be used to contain multiple production-level auth methods in separate scopes.
- **Project** - Project scopes are contained in Org scopes and be used to separate different business workflows. For example, Projects can be used to represent different teams, products, or environments (test, dev, prod).

#### Auth Methods

> [Auth Methods](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/auth-methods) are resources that authenticate users to 

Author: ```suggestion
[Auth Methods](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/auth-methods) are resources that authenticate users to 
```

Boundary. Auth methods can only be contained by the global or Org scope. The available auth methods are:
- Username/Password

> - [OIDC](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/tutorials/access-management/oidc-auth)

Author: ```suggestion
- [OIDC](/boundary/tutorials/access-management/oidc-auth)
- LDAP
```

#### Accounts

> [Accounts](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/accounts) are resources that represent an authenticated user from a trusted identity provider through a Boundary auth method. Accounts must belong to an auth method, and can be associated with a single Boundary User. Boundary accounts can belong to the global or Org Scopes.

Author: ```suggestion
[Accounts](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/accounts) are resources that represent an authenticated user from a trusted identity provider through a Boundary auth method. Accounts must belong to an auth method, and can be associated with a single Boundary User. Boundary accounts can belong to the global or Org Scopes.
```

#### Users

> [Users](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/users) are resources that represent an individual person or entity for the purposes of 

Author: ```suggestion
[Users](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/users) are resources that represent an individual person or entity for the purposes of 
```

access control. A user can contain multiple accounts from multiple auth methods, and can belong to the global or Org Scopes.

#### Groups

> [Groups](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/groups) are resources that represent a collection of users, and can be contained by any 

Author: ```suggestion
[Groups](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/groups) are resources that represent a collection of users, and can be contained by any 
```

> scope. [Managed groups](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/managed-groups) are a special kind of group that syncs with the auth 

Author: ```suggestion
scope. [Managed groups](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/managed-groups) are a special kind of group that syncs with the auth 
```

method's identity provider to provide up-to-date information.

#### Roles

> [Roles](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/roles) are resources that contain a collection of 

Author: ```suggestion
[Roles](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/roles) are resources that contain a collection of 
```

> [permissions](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions) which are granted to any principal (user or group) from any scope. Roles 

Author: ```suggestion
[permissions](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions) which are granted to any principal (user or group) from any scope. Roles 
```

> can be contained by any scope, and can specify which scope the permissions will apply to.

Author: ```suggestion
can be contained by any scope, and the permissions can be applied to the same scope or any child scope.
```

## Access Management
#### Configuring Users
There are 3 steps to adding new users to Boundary using the password auth method. Note that for OIDC auth methods, the resources generated in the following steps are auto-generated using 
information provided by the identity provider.

> 1. **Auth Method** - Choose the scope and the auth method that the user will use to authenticate to Boundary. If the desired auth method does not exist, a new one needs 
> to be created.
> 2. **Account** - After the auth method is selected, an account can be created under the auth method.
> 3. **User** - In the same scope, create a new user, and then attach the new account to the new user. The user is now able to authenticate to Boundary.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Choose the **scope** and the **auth method** that the user will use to authenticate to Boundary. If the desired auth method does not exist, a new one needs 
to be created.
2. After the auth method is selected, an **account** can be created under the auth method.
3. In the same scope, create a new **user**, and then attach the new account to the new user. The user is now able to authenticate to Boundary.
```

#### Granting Permissions
When you set up access controls for a user, it is important to first consider which scopes the user needs access to. **Each scope needs its own role** which the user must 
be added to. After adding the user to each role, you must write grants to give the user permissions to perform actions in each role. 

## Examples 
Here are a few examples of access management for personas, using this sample scope structure. In this structure, there are 7 scopes overall: 1 global, 2 Orgs, and 4 
Projects. To learn more about writing grants, see here.

![IAM Example](/img/iam-example-structure.png)

#### Boundary Admin
1. All 7 scopes **each** require a role (ex. “admin”)

> 2. Each role needs to have the user added to it

Author: ```suggestion
2. Each role needs to have the user/group added as a principal
```

3. Each role needs to have the grants of

>     `id=*;type=*;actions=*`

Author: ```suggestion
- &#32; `id=*;type=*;actions=*`
```

#### Boundary Viewer
1. All 7 scopes **each** require a role (ex. “viewer”)

> 2. Each role needs to have the user added to it

Author: ```suggestion
2. Each role needs to have the user/group added as a principal
```

3. Each role needs to have the grants of

>     `id=*;type=*;actions=read,list`

Author: ```suggestion
- &#32; `id=*;type=*;actions=read,list`
```

#### Org_A Admin
1. The following scopes **each** require a role (ex. “admin”)
    - Org_A
    - Project_1
    - Project_2

> 2. Each role needs to have the user added to it

Author: ```suggestion
2. Each role needs to have the user/group added as a principal
```

3. Each role needs to have the grants of

>     `id=*;type=*;actions=*`

Author: ```suggestion
- &#32; `id=*;type=*;actions=*`
```

#### Project_1 Admin
1. Project_1 requires a role (ex. “admin”)

> 2. The role needs to have the user added to it

Author: ```suggestion
2. The role needs to have the user/group added as a principal
```

3. The role needs to have the grants of

>     `id=*;type=*;actions=*`

Author: ```suggestion
- &#32; `id=*;type=*;actions=*`
```

#### Project_1 Target Access
1. Project_1 requires a role (ex. “target_access”)

> 2. The role needs to have the user added to it

Author: ```suggestion
2. The role needs to have the user/group added as a principal
```

3. The role needs to have the grants of

>     `id=*;type=target;actions=list,read,authorize-session`
>     `id=*;type=session;actions=read:self,cancel:self,list`

Author: ```suggestion
- &#32; `id=*;type=target;actions=list,read,authorize-session`
- &#32; `id=*;type=session;actions=read:self,cancel:self,list`
```

-> **Tip:** You can use the same roles across “Boundary Admin”, “Org_A Admin”, and “Project_1 Admin” since the scopes and grants are the same. The only difference is 

> the users that are added to each role. 

Author: ```suggestion
the users/groups that are added to each role. 
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Identity and Access Management (IAM)
description: |-
  Identity and Access Management in Boundary
---

# Identity and Access Management (IAM)
## IAM Components
There are 5 key components to Boundary's identity and access management system: **Scopes**, **Auth Methods**, **Accounts**, **Users**, **Groups**, and **Roles**.

#### Scopes
[Scopes](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/scopes) can be considered as containers for its own resources and permissions. Each scope also has a permissions boundary that is isolated from other scopes on the same level. There are three types of scopes:
- **Global** - The highest-level scope of Boundary where administrators configure and manage Boundary for the entire company.
- **Org (Organization)** - Org scopes are contained in the global scope and are typically used to represent business units, organizations, or departments. 

> You can also use Org scopes to contain multiple production-level auth methods in separate scopes.

Author: ```suggestion
Org scopes can also be used to contain multiple production-level auth methods in separate scopes.
```

- **Project** - Project scopes are contained in Org scopes and be used to separate different business workflows. For example, Projects can be used to represent different teams, products, or environments (test, dev, prod).

#### Auth Methods
[Auth Methods](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/auth-methods) are resources that authenticate users to 
Boundary. Auth methods can only be contained by the global or Org scope. The available auth methods are:
- Username/Password
- [OIDC](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/tutorials/access-management/oidc-auth)

#### Accounts
[Accounts](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/accounts) are resources that represent a set of credentials used to establish the 
identity of a user. An account is created with an auth method, and can be associated with a single user. Accounts can be contained by any scope.

#### Users
[Users](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/users) are resources that represent an individual person or entity for the purposes of 

> access control. A user can contain multiple accounts from multiple auth methods, and can be contained by any scope.

Author: ```suggestion
access control. A user can contain multiple accounts from multiple auth methods, and can belong to the global or Org Scopes.
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Identity and Access Management (IAM)
description: |-
  Identity and Access Management in Boundary
---

# Identity and Access Management (IAM)
## IAM Components
There are 5 key components to Boundary's identity and access management system: **Scopes**, **Auth Methods**, **Accounts**, **Users**, **Groups**, and **Roles**.

#### Scopes

> [Scopes](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/scopes) are containers for all of Boundary's resources and have their own permissions 
> boundary, isolated from other scopes at the same level. **Each scope has its own set of resources and permissions**. There are three types of scopes:

Author: ```suggestion
[Scopes](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/scopes) can be considered as containers for its own resources and permissions. Each scope also has a permissions boundary that is isolated from other scopes on the same level. There are three types of scopes:
```

> - **Global** - The single, outermost scope of Boundary that cannot be deleted.

Reviewer: What purpose does the global scope serve?

Author: Added description

> - **Global** - The single, outermost scope of Boundary that cannot be deleted.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Global** - The highest-level scope of Boundary where administrators configure and manage Boundary for the entire company.
```

> - **Org (Organization)** - Org scopes are contained in the global scope and are typically used to represent business units, organizations, or departments. Org scopes 

Reviewer: So if I need multiple IdPs (auth-methods) I should put them in separate scopes?
What if one business unit/department needs many IdPs for its cohort?

are also utilized when there are multiple production-level auth methods that need to be kept in separate scopes.

> - **Project** - Project scopes are contained in Org scopes and contain infrastructure resources.

Reviewer: Would you describe resources like: roles, grants, groups as infrastructure?

#### Auth Methods
[Auth Methods](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/auth-methods) are resources that provide a mechanism for users to authenticate to 
Boundary. Auth methods can only be contained by the global or Org scope. The available auth methods are:
- Username/Password
- [OIDC](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/tutorials/access-management/oidc-auth)

#### Accounts
[Accounts](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/accounts) are resources that represent a set of credentials used to establish the 

> identity of a user. An account is created with an auth method, and can be associated with a single user. Accounts can be contained by any scope.

Reviewer: I'm not sure accounts actually represent credentials.   

I might suggest: A Boundary Account represents an authenticated user from a trusted identity
provider via a Boundary Auth Method.  Accounts must belong to an Auth Method,
and can be associated with a single Boundary User.  Boundary Accounts can belong
to the Global or Org Scopes.

> identity of a user. An account is created with an auth method, and can be associated with a single user. Accounts can be contained by any scope.

Author: Yeah technically they are optional, however they are useless if not associated with a user

#### Users

> [Users](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/users) are resources that represent an individual person or entity for the purposes of 

Reviewer: Can users be contained in a project?

access control. A user can contain multiple accounts from multiple auth methods, and can be contained by any scope.

#### Groups
[Groups](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/groups) are resources that represent a collection of users, and can be contained by any 
scope. [Managed groups](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/managed-groups) are a special kind of group that syncs with the auth 
method's identity provider to provide up to date information.

#### Roles
[Roles](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/roles) are resources that contain a collection of 
[permissions](https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions) which are granted to any principal (user or group) from any scope. Roles 

> can be contained by any scope, and can specify which scope the permissions will apply to.

Reviewer: I think, GrantScopeId can only be a child scope.

Reviewer 2: Just tested and it looks like it can be the role scope _or_ its children.

Reviewer 2: https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions#roles

Author: Changed wording

> can be contained by any scope, and can specify which scope the permissions will apply to.

Author: No, only 1 scope

## Access Management
#### Configuring Users

> When adding new users to Boundary using the password auth method, there are 3 steps to follow. Note: for OIDC auth methods, the following will be auto-generated using 

Reviewer: I might suggest breaking out OIDC/LDAP user and account configuration.  Also,
OIDC/LDAP users and accounts can be auto-vivified if they are the primary auth
method... and they can also be provisioned directly via the API.

information provided by the identity provider.
1. **Auth Method** - Choose the scope and the auth method that the user will use to authenticate to Boundary. If the desired auth method does not exist, a new one needs 
to be created.
2. **Account** - After the auth method is selected, an account can be created under the auth method.

> 3. **User** - In the same scope, create a new user, and then attach the new account to the new user. The user is now able to authenticate to Boundary.

Reviewer 3: I think having the resource precede the step in the numbered list is a little confusing since it mixes talking about things with actions. I deleted them in my suggestion, but feel free to disregard if you think it's important info. Alternatively, we could put this info in a table with 2 columns listing the resource being created, and the step to create it.

Also, we (Education) are trying to move away from putting procedures and conceptual information in the same topic. I am wondering if longer term we might want to move this section into a standalone topic for **Configuring users** and build upon this.

> 3. **User** - In the same scope, create a new user, and then attach the new account to the new user. The user is now able to authenticate to Boundary.

Author: That makes sense, although I would like to bold the resource types in the steps

#### Granting Permissions

> When setting up access controls for a user, it is important to first consider which scopes the user needs access to. **Each scope needs its own role** which the user must 

Reviewer: Hum... I'm not sure I'd approach the problem in this manner.  

It really depends what users/accounts/resources I'm dealing with.  

For OIDC accounts, I'd probably create managed groups and then create
appropriate roles and finally associate managed groups with roles.

Even if I were just dealing with static accounts/users/groups I probably would
still create groups and not assign a user directly to a role.  

Perhaps expand this section with more use-cases?

Author: Good call, will address this

> be added to. After adding the user to each role, grants need to be written to give the user permissions to perform actions in each role. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
be added to. After adding the user to each role, you must write grants to give the user permissions to perform actions in each role. 
```

## Examples 
Here are a few examples of access management for personas, using this sample scope structure. In this structure, there are 7 scopes overall: 1 global, 2 Orgs, and 4 
Projects. To learn more about writing grants, see here.

> ![IAM Example](/img/iam-example-structure.png)

Author: I need to fix/update this image

#### Boundary Admin
1. All 7 scopes **each** require a role (ex. “admin”)
2. Each role needs to have the user added to it
3. Each role needs to have the grants of

    `id=*;type=*;actions=*`

#### Boundary Viewer
1. All 7 scopes **each** require a role (ex. “viewer”)
2. Each role needs to have the user added to it
3. Each role needs to have the grants of

    `id=*;type=*;actions=read,list`

#### Org_A Admin
1. The following scopes **each** require a role (ex. “admin”)
    - Org_A
    - Project_1
    - Project_2
2. Each role needs to have the user added to it
3. Each role needs to have the grants of

    `id=*;type=*;actions=*`

#### Project_1 Admin
1. Project_1 requires a role (ex. “admin”)
2. The role needs to have the user added to it
3. The role needs to have the grants of

    `id=*;type=*;actions=*`

#### Project_1 Target Access
1. Project_1 requires a role (ex. “target_access”)
2. The role needs to have the user added to it
3. The role needs to have the grants of

    `id=*;type=target;actions=list,read,authorize-session`
    `id=*;type=session;actions=read:self,cancel:self,list`

> -> **Tip:** The same roles can be used across “Boundary Admin”, “Org_A Admin”, and “Project_1 Admin” since the scopes and grants are the same. The only difference is 
> the users that are added to each role. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-> **Tip:** You can use the same roles across “Boundary Admin”, “Org_A Admin”, and “Project_1 Admin” since the scopes and grants are the same. The only difference is 
the users that are added to each role. 
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Identity and Access Management (IAM)
description: |-
  Identity and Access Management in Boundary
---

# Identity and access management (IAM)
## IAM components

> There are 5 key components to Boundary's identity and access management system: **Scopes**, **Auth Methods**, **Accounts**, **Users**, **Groups**, and **Roles**.

Author: ```suggestion
There are 6 key components to Boundary's identity and access management system: **Scopes**, **Auth Methods**, **Accounts**, **Users**, **Groups**, and **Roles**.
```

Author: Oof

access control. A user can contain multiple accounts from multiple auth methods, and can belong to the global or Org Scopes.

### Groups
[Groups](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/groups) are resources that represent a collection of users, and can be contained by any
scope. [Managed groups](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/managed-groups) are a special kind of group that syncs with the auth
method's identity provider to provide up-to-date information.

### Roles
[Roles](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/roles) are resources that contain a collection of
[permissions](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions) which are granted to any principal (user or group) from any scope. Roles
can be contained by any scope, and the permissions can be applied to the same scope or any child scope.

## Access management
### Configuring users - username/password
There are 3 steps to adding new users to Boundary using the password auth method.
1. Choose the **scope** and the **auth method** that the user will use to authenticate to Boundary. If the desired auth method does not exist, a new one needs
to be created.

> 2. After the auth method is selected, an **account** can be created under the auth method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. After the auth method is selected, you can create an **account** under the auth method.
```

3. In the same scope, create a new **user**, and then attach the new account to the new user. The user is now able to authenticate to Boundary.

### Configuring users - OIDC/LDAP
[OIDC](/boundary/tutorials/identity-management/oidc-auth) and LDAP accounts and users are auto-vivified (automatically generated) in Boundary in the same scope

> as the auth method. The accounts and users are only created once the user authenticates for the first time to Boundary. The same applies to OIDC/LDAP

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
as the auth method. The accounts and users are only created once the user authenticates to Boundary for the first time. The same applies to OIDC/LDAP
```

[managed groups](/boundary/tutorials/identity-management/oidc-idp-groups).

### Granting permissions
When setting up access controls for a user, it is important to first consider which scope(s) the user needs access to. **Each scope requires its own set of roles**,
giving users permission to perform actions through [grants strings](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/grants).

> It is recommended to add the user to a group, and then add the group to the role(s), instead of adding the user directly to the role(s). This way, multiple users can
> be managed at the same time, and it is easier to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is recommended to add the user to a group, and then add the group to the role(s), instead of adding the user directly to the role(s). This way, you can manage multiple users at the same time, and it is easier to
```

> change the permissions of the user by adding/removing them from groups. The same can be done with OIDC/LDAP users and managed groups, directly in the provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
change the permissions of the user by adding/removing them from groups. You can manage OIDC/LDAP users and managed groups the same way, directly in the provider.
```

## Examples
Here are a few examples of access management for personas, using this sample scope structure. In this structure, there are 7 scopes overall: 1 global, 2 Orgs, and 4

> Projects. To learn more about writing grants, see [grants strings](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/grants).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Projects. To learn more about writing grants, refer to [grants strings](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/grants).
```

![IAM Example Structure](/img/iam-example-structure.png)

### Boundary admin

> 1. All 7 scopes **each** require a role (ex. “admin”)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **Each** of the 7 scopes requires a role (ex. “admin”)
```

2. Each role needs to have the user/group added as a principal
3. Each role needs to have the grants of

   - &#32; `id=*;type=*;actions=*`

### Boundary Viewer

> 1. All 7 scopes **each** require a role (ex. “viewer”)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **Each** of the 7 scopes requires a role (ex. “viewer”)
```
